---
displayDate: January 10
title: Fear
---

<span class="quote">
Do not be too timid and squeamish about your actions. All life is an experiment. The more experiments you make the better. What if they are a little coarse, and you may get your Page 11 coat soiled or torn? What if you do fail, and get fairly rolled in the dirt once or twice? Up again; you shall never be so afraid of a tumble.
<span class="quote-attribution">
Ralph Waldo Emerson
</span>
</span>

Fear can be a big stopper for many of us: fear of fragility, fear of failure, fear of making a mistake, fear of what others might think, fear of success. We may secondguess our next action or word until we talk ourselves out of participating in life. "But I failed before!" "I can't do it good enough!" "Look at what happened last time!" "What if . . .?'' These statements may disguise fear. Sometimes the fear is disguising shame. After I finished the first two chapters of a book I was writing, I read them and grimaced. "No good," I thought. "Can't do it." I was ready to pitch the chapters, and my writing career, out the window. A writer friend called, and I told her about my problem. She listened and told me: "Those chapters are fine. Stop being afraid. Stop criticizing yourself. And keep on writing." I followed her advice. The book I almost threw away became a New York Times bestseller. Relax. Our best is good enough. It may be better than we think. Even our failures may turn out to be important learning experiences that lead directly to—and are necessary for—an upcoming success. Feel the fear, then let it go. Jump in and do it—whatever it is. If our instincts and path have led us there, it's where we need to be.

<span class="focal-point">
Today, I will participate in life to the best of my ability. Regardless of the outcome, that makes me a winner.
</span>
