---
displayDate: April 2
title: Facing Our Darker Side
---

<span class="quote">
Made a searching and fearless moral inventory of ourselves.
<span class="quote-attribution">
Step Four of AlAnon
</span>
</span>

By the time we get to the Fourth of the Twelve Steps, we are ready to face our darker side, the side that prevents us from loving ourselves and others, from letting others love us, and from enjoying life. The purpose of Step Four is not to make ourselves feel worse; our purpose is to begin to remove our blocks to joy and love. We look for fears, anger hurt, and shame from past events—buried feelings that may be affecting our life today. We search for subconscious beliefs about ourselves and others that may be interfering with the quality of our relationships.

*These beliefs say: I'm not lovable. . . . I'm a burden to those around me. . . . People can't be trusted. . . . I can't be trusted. . . . I don't deserve to be happy and successful. . . . Life isn't worth living. We look at our behaviors and patterns with*

an eye toward discerning the selfdefeating ones. With love and compassion for ourselves, we try to unearth all our guilt earned and unearned—and expose it to the light. We perform this examination without fear of what we shall find, because this soulsearching can cleanse us and help us feel better about ourselves than we ever dreamt possible.

<span class="focal-point">
God, help me search out the blocks and barriers within myself. Bring what I need to know into my conscious mind, so I can be free of it. Show me what I need to know about myself.
</span>
