---
displayDate: July 9
title: Overspending and Underspending
---

{% quote "Anonymous" %}
I used to beat my husband to death with my credit card. It made me feel like I had some control, some way to get even with him.
{% endquote %}

*I spent ten years buying everything for myself at garage sales. I didn't even buy myself a new pair of shoes. The entire time I was depriving myself, my husband was gambling, speculating on risky business deals, and doing whatever he wanted with money. I learned that when I made a decision that I deserved to have the things I wanted, and made a decision to buy something I wanted, there was enough money to do it. It wasn't about being frugal; it was about depriving myself, and being a martyr.*

—Anonymous Compulsive buying or overspending may give us a temporary feeling of power or satisfaction, but like other outofcontrol behaviors, it has predictable negative consequences. Underspending can leave us feeling victimized too. There is a difference between responsible spending and martyred deprivation. There is a difference between treating ourselves well financially and overspending. We can learn to discern that difference. We can develop responsible spending habits that reflect high selfesteem and love for ourselves.

{% focal %}
Today, I will strive for balance in my spending habits. If I am overspending, I will stop and deal with what's going on inside me. If I am underspending or depriving myself, I will ask myself if that's necessary and what I want.
{% endfocal %}
