---
displayDate: September 5
title: Step Ten
---

{% quote "Step Ten of Al-Anon" %}
Continued to take personal inventory and when we were wrong promptly admitted it.
{% endquote %}

Once we have worked our way to this Step, we can maintain and increase our selfesteem by regularly working Step Ten. This Step incorporates the process we have gone through in Steps Four through Nine. We do not work this Step to punish ourselves or to hold ourselves under a constantly critical and demeaning microscope. We do it to maintain selfesteem and harmony in our relationship with ourselves and others. We do it to stay on track. When an issue or problem emerges and needs our attention, identify it and openly discuss it with at least one safe person and God. Accept it. Become willing to let go of it. Ask God to take it from us. Have a change of heart by the willingness to make whatever amend is called for—to do what is necessary to take care of ourselves. Take an appropriate action to resolve the matter. Then let go of the guilt and shame. This is a simple formula for taking care of ourselves. This is how we change. This is how we become changed. This is the process for healing and health. This is the process for achieving selfresponsibility and selfesteem. The next time we do something that bothers us, the next time we feel off track or off course, we don't have to waste our time or energy feeling ashamed. We can take a Tenth Step. Let the process happen. And move on with our life.

{% focal %}
God, help me make this Step and other Steps a habitual way of responding to life and my issues. Help me know that I am free to live, to allow myself to fully experiment with and experience life. If Iget off course, or if an issue arises that demands my attention, help me deal with it by using the Tenth Step.
{% endfocal %}
