---
displayDate: November 15
title: Benefits of Recovery
---

There are two benefits from recovery: we have shortterm gains and longterm gains. The shortterm gains are the things we can do today that help us feel better immediately. We can wake up in the morning, read for a few minutes in our meditation book, and feel lifted. We can work a Step and often notice an immediate difference in the way we feel and function. We can go to a meeting and feel refreshed, talk to a friend and feel comforted, or practice a new recovery behavior, such as dealing with our feelings or doing something good for ourselves, and feel relieved. There are other benefits from recovery, though, that we don't see immediately on a daily or even a monthly basis. These are the longterm gains, the larger progress we make in our life. Over the years, we can see tremendous rewards. We can watch ourselves grow strong in faith, until we have a daily personal relationship with a Higher Power that is as real to us as a relationship with a best friend. We can watch ourselves grow beautiful as we shed shame, guilt, resentments, selfhatred, and other negative buildups from our past. We can watch the quality of our relationships improve with family, friends, and spouses. We find ourselves growing steadily and gradually in our capacity to be intimate and close, to give and receive. We can watch ourselves grow in our careers, in our ability to be creative, powerful, productive people, using our gifts and talents in a way that feels good and benefits others. We discover the joy and beauty in ourselves, others, and life. The longterm progress is steady, but sometimes slow, happening in increments and often with much forward and backward movement. Enough days at a time of practicing recovery behaviors and piling up shortterm gains leads to longterm rewards.

{% focal %}
Today, I will be grateful for the immediate and longterm rewards of recovery. If I am new to recovery, I will have faith that I can achieve the longterm benefits. If I've been recovering for a while, I will pause to reflect, and be grateful for my overall progress.
{% endfocal %}
