---
displayDate: November 29
title: Step Twelve
---

The Twelfth Step says that having had a spiritual awakening, we try to carry this message to others. Our message is one of hope, love, comfort, health—a better way of life, one that works. How do we carry it? Not by rescuing. Not by controlling. Not by obsessing. Not by becoming evangelists for the recovery cause. We carry the message in many small, subtle, but powerful ways. We do our own recovery work and become a living demonstration of hope, selflove, comfort, and health. These quiet behaviors can be a powerful message. Inviting (not ordering or demanding) someone to go to a meeting is a powerful way to carry the message. Going to our meetings and sharing how recovery works for us is a powerful way to carry the message. Being who we are and allowing our Higher Power to guide our actions are powerful ways to carry the message. Often, we find ourselves carrying the message more effectively than we do when we set out to reform, convince, or coerce someone into recovery. Caretaking and controlling are not ways to carry the message. All those behaviors carry is codependency. Still, the most powerful form of helping others comes down to helping ourselves. When we do our own work and are honest and open about it, we impact others more than by our most wellintentioned "helping" gesture. We cannot change others, but when we change ourselves, we may end up changing the world.

<span class="focal-point">
Today, I will strive to carry the message in ways that work. I will let go of my need to "help" people. Instead, I will concentrate on helping and changing myself. If an opportunity comes up to share my recovery with someone, I will do so quietly. God, help me show others comfort, empowerment, and hope. I can be a channel to help others when I am ready. I do not have to force this; it will happen naturally.
</span>
